Update CNAME test scenarios (#1477)
dotse/zonemaster: docs/public/specifications/test-zones/Engine/Recursor-PM/CNAME.md

LOOPED-CNAME-IN-ZONE-2       | Undefined and tags `CNAME_START`, `CNAME_LOOP_INNER`
LOOPED-CNAME-IN-ZONE-3       | Undefined and tags `CNAME_START`, `CNAME_LOOP_INNER`
LOOPED-CNAME-OUT-OF-ZONE     | Undefined and tags `CNAME_START`, `CNAME_LOOP_OUTER`
TOO-LONG-CNAME-CHAIN         | Undefined and tags `CNAME_START`, `CNAME_CHAIN_TOO_LONG`
TOO-MANY-CNAME               | Undefined and tags `CNAME_START`, `CNAME_RECORDS_TOO_MANY`
TARGET-NO-MATCH-CNAME        | Undefined and tags `CNAME_START`, `CNAME_NO_MATCH`
BROKEN-CNAME-CHAIN           | Undefined and tags `CNAME_START`, `CNAME_RECORDS_CHAIN_BROKEN`
WRONG-CNAME-OWNER-NAME       | False and no tags
EXTRA-CNAME-IN-ANSWER        | False and no tags

> UNRESOLVABLE-CNAME           | Undefined and tags `CNAME_START`, `CNAME_UNRESOLVABLE`

Reviewer: Scenario `CNAME-CHAIN-TO-NODATA` is newly introduced, but missing in this table.

```

### TOO-LONG-CNAME-CHAIN
The query name will follow a CNAME chain and reach the maximum lookup limit

> in different, unique zones.

Reviewer 2: This means that there is a limit set in Zonemaster. I suggest that there is a reference to that here,

Author: Done. The limit is currently hardcoded in the `Constants.pm` module in Zonemaster-Engine (`CNAME_MAX_CHAIN_LENGTH`).

   extra-cname-in-answer-1       CNAME extra-cname-in-answer-2
```

### UNRESOLVABLE-CNAME
The target in the CNAME record can not be resolved because

> of an unidentified issue with the zone.

Reviewer: You want a CNAME resource record pointing to a name that cannot resolve because all authoritative name servers respond with SERVFAIL or something like that?

Author: No. This scenario should capture an edge case where we reach the end of the [`_resolve_cname()`](https://github.com/tgreenx/zonemaster-engine/blob/797964ef0f8979be1bcaf64038c7bd086f9df8f8/lib/Zonemaster/Engine/Recursor.pm#L162-L273) method, despite all the checks and safeguards already in place. It's a path in the code that should not be reachable normally, but it's there as another safety measure. So far I couldn't think of any such edge case.

Reviewer: After looking carefully, I’ve found an edge case that triggers a `CNAME_UNRESOLVABLE` message.

If a name is an alias to a subdomain of itself and no resource record of the requested type exists at the CNAME’s target, you’ll get the message.

Here’s an example. Consider the following zone file for the `test` zone:

```zone
$ORIGIN test.
;; SOA records, NS records, etc.

break-me                IN  CNAME  sub.break-me
;; sub.break-me is an empty non-terminal
*.sub.break-me          IN  AAAA   ::
```
Then, attempting `Zonemaster::Engine::Recursor->recurse("break-me.test")` triggers `CNAME_UNRESOLVABLE`.

   extra-cname-in-answer-1       CNAME extra-cname-in-answer-2
```

### UNRESOLVABLE-CNAME
The target in the CNAME record can not be resolved because
of an issue with the zone.

* Query name: "unresolvable-cname.cname.recursor.engine.xa"

>   * To be found in the answer section:

Reviewer 2: Is there any difference between the following cases assuming that the query is for "target.unresolvable-cname. A"

```
unresolvable-cname            CNAME target.unresolvable-cname
*.target.unresolvable-cname   TXT   "Breaks"
```

```
unresolvable-cname            CNAME target.unresolvable-cname
target.unresolvable-cname   TXT   "Breaks"
```

```
unresolvable-cname            CNAME target.unresolvable-cname
sub.target.unresolvable-cname   TXT   "Breaks"
```

```
unresolvable-cname            CNAME target.unresolvable-cname
```

```
unresolvable-cname            CNAME target.unresolvable-cname
*.target.unresolvable-cname   TXT   "Breaks"
```

```
unresolvable-cname            CNAME target.unresolvable-cname.
target.unresolvable-cname.local   TXT   "Breaks"
```

Reviewer: Not really. The idea of the scenario is to have a CNAME chain end up at a final query that gives NODATA.

That’s also why I take issue with the scenario’s name. There is nothing wrong with the CNAME chain itself but we simply end up with a slightly different kind of negative response. Instead of `UNRESOLVABLE-CNAME`, this scenario should be called `CNAME-CHAIN-TO-NODATA` and the text be updated accordingly.

Reviewer 2: Maybe two scenarios, `CNAME-CHAIN-TO-NODATA` and `CNAME-CHAIN-TO-NXDOMAIN`.

What is special here is that the answer section contains an unrelated record. Only records matching query name or the CNAME target (CNAME RDATA) are expected here. What is the point of the unrelated record? Do we expect Zonemaster to react?

Author: `CNAME-CHAIN-TO-NODATA` scenario added. And `CNAME-CHAIN-TO-NXDOMAIN` is not needed, NXDOMAIN responses are already handled by the calling method (`Zonemaster::Engine::Recursor::_recurse()`).

   extra-cname-in-answer-1       CNAME extra-cname-in-answer-2
```

### CNAME-CHAIN-TO-NODATA
There is a NODATA response for an in-bailiwick CNAME target name.

* Query name: "unresolvable-cname.cname.recursor.engine.xa"
  * To be found in the answer section:
```
cname-chain-to-nodata            CNAME target.cname-chain-to-nodata
```
  * The CNAME target "target.cname-chain-to-nodata..cname.recursor.engine.xa"
    gives a NODATA response

### UNRESOLVABLE-CNAME
The target in the CNAME record can not be resolved because

> of an issue with the zone.

Reviewer 2: Is it really correct to call that an issue? Say that you have the following in a zone:
```
www.namn.se.    CNAME  webb.namn.se.
webb.namn.se.   A            127.10.1.0
```
A query for "www.namn.se. A" returns an A record, but a query for "www.namn.se. AAAA" return NODATA. The zone is fine. There is no issue with the zone.

Currently this scenario considers a FORMERR response to an
in-bailiwick CNAME target name.

* Query name: "unresolvable-cname.cname.recursor.engine.xa"

>   * To be found in the answer section:

Reviewer 2: You said that "To be found in the answer section" above should be "To be found in the zone".

```
unresolvable-cname            CNAME target.unresolvable-cname
```
  * The CNAME target "target.unresolvable-cname.cname.recursor.engine.xa"

>     gives a FORMERR response

Reviewer 2: Is that to test what happens when the RCODE is FORMERR? FORMERR is something that the server sends out when it cannot handle the format of the query. And then the DNS record sections are empty, except for the query section.

Reviewer: More generally, it’s meant to test resilience against any kind of resolution failures, mainly those due to server failures. The RCODE could be SERVFAIL or FORMERR or something else, but I don’t think that matters a lot. SERVFAIL is more common, though.

Reviewer 2: That is fine, but is that connected CNAME in some sense?

   extra-cname-in-answer-1       CNAME extra-cname-in-answer-2
```

### CNAME-CHAIN-TO-NODATA
There is a NODATA response for an in-bailiwick CNAME target name.

* Query name: "unresolvable-cname.cname.recursor.engine.xa"
  * To be found in the answer section:
```
cname-chain-to-nodata            CNAME target.cname-chain-to-nodata
```
  * The CNAME target "target.cname-chain-to-nodata..cname.recursor.engine.xa"
    gives a NODATA response

### UNRESOLVABLE-CNAME
The target in the CNAME record can not be resolved because

> of an issue with the zone.

Reviewer: It isn’t an issue with the zone, but something that [RFC 9520](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9520.html) calls a resolution failure. Instead, it’s an issue with the name server.

Reviewer 2: In a weird case it could be that the CNAME points to a name in the same zone, but that part of the zone is served in such a way that you get a SERVFAIL. Else the target name could be in another zone on the same server, but that zone cannot be loaded.

> Currently this scenario considers a FORMERR response to an
> in-bailiwick CNAME target name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This scenario involves a FORMERR response to a query for the target of a CNAME resource record
when the target is a subdomain of the resource record’s owner name.
```

Reviewer 2: What does "a query for the target of a CNAME resource record"? The the query section you have a query name that could match an owner name with a CNAME record in the zone. Is that to query for the target? Or you can get a CNAME record from one query of an authoritative server, and the target points exists in another zone, and you send a new query to that zone's server. Is that to query for the target?

Reviewer: Yes, it’s the name pointed to by the CNAME resource record. The domain name that appears in the CNAME resource record’s RDATA.

Reviewer 2: Right, but it is not part of the query. It comes from the server. I think it is farfetched that a server sets FORMERR in the response (meaning that the query had a format error) because the server does not like the target name of the CNAME, which was not in the query but comes with the response (from the server). Here SERVFAIL would be more likely.

If a server could respond FORMERR in such a case, then it could respond FORMERR on a query for an A record because the A record that the server serves has a private IP address in RDATA.

I do not see the connection to CNAME in this scenario.

Reviewer: So in a nutshell, you’d rather see a SERVFAIL response in this scenario?

Yes, the scenario is far-fetched, but so have been the problems we’ve seen in the wild that have caused issues in Zonemaster before.

Reviewer 2: It would be good to make sure that Zonemaster handles strange responses in different situations. If you get a FORMERR or SERVFAIL as RCODE then you should ignore anything in the answer, authority or additional section besides OPT record in additional. In this scenario you do not query for CNAME so if  the server adds a CNAME or A record to the answer section is irrelevant. You have to handle the FORMERR or SERVFAIL RCODE in a reasonable way.

The scenario is fine, but not under a CNAME umbrella.

Reviewer: > The scenario is fine, but not under a CNAME umbrella.

I disagree: a normal resolution failure (e.g. getting directly SERVFAIL in response to an initial query) is one thing; but getting a resolution failure in a subordinate query (e.g. query to name A gives a CNAME to B, then the query to B gives SERVFAIL) is likely to be a different code path. We need to test both. This scenario makes perfect sense here.

Reviewer 2: I do not understand what you mean. Here is the text from the scenario specification:
````
### UNRESOLVABLE-CNAME
The target in the CNAME record can not be resolved because
of an issue with the zone.
Currently this scenario considers a FORMERR response to an
in-bailiwick CNAME target name.

* Query name: "unresolvable-cname.cname.recursor.engine.xa"
  * To be found in the answer section:
```
unresolvable-cname            CNAME target.unresolvable-cname
```
  * The CNAME target "target.unresolvable-cname.cname.recursor.engine.xa"
    gives a FORMERR response
````

Zonemaster sends a query QNAME=`unresolvable-cname.cname.recursor.engine.xa` and some QTYPE not specified but it must be something other than CNAME for CNAME to be special, say QTYPE=`TXT`.

The server responds with RCODE=`FORMERR` and with the following record in the answer section. 
```
unresolvable-cname.cname.recursor.engine.xa.  CNAME target.unresolvable-cname.cname.recursor.engine.xa.
```
In such a case the answer section should be ignored. Zonemaster should send any more queries for this case. What do you want to test? Do you want to test if Zonemaster erroneously tries to look the CNAME target up?

Possible variants of the scenario:
* Answer section is empty.
* The RRtype in the answer section is TXT or A.
* The owner name of the RR in the answer section is `something.xb`.
* RCODE is REFUSED or SERVFAIL.

Reviewer: The point of this scenario is to test whether Zonemaster correctly returns a resolution failure and the appropriate message in case a query that tries to follow a CNAME gets a response that is neither a positive response, nor a negative response, but something else that indicates a resolution failure.

The query for unresolvable-cname.recursor.engine.xa should give RCODE NOERROR and the following resource record in the answer section:
```zone
unresolvable-cname.recursor.engine.xa.  IN  CNAME target.unresolvable-cname.recursor.engine.xa.
```

This, in turn, should trigger a subordinate query for target.unresolvable-cname.recursor.engine.xa. It’s that query that should yield a response with some RCODE that is neither NOERROR nor NXDOMAIN. The spec here says FORMERR, but SERVFAIL would work just as well. The answer, authority and additional sections should be empty.

Reviewer 2: > The point of this scenario is to test whether Zonemaster correctly returns a resolution failure and the appropriate message in case a query that tries to follow a CNAME gets a response that is neither a positive response, nor a negative response, but something else that indicates a resolution failure.

That is OK.

> The query for unresolvable-cname.recursor.engine.xa should give RCODE NOERROR and the following resource record in the answer section:
> 
> ```
> unresolvable-cname.recursor.engine.xa.  IN  CNAME target.unresolvable-cname.recursor.engine.xa.
> ```

Query for unresolvable-cname.recursor.engine.xa and what QTYPE? That is important, CNAME or something else? Let's assume TXT.

If there is no record for the target name, there are two well-formed responses that require some records in the authority section.

* NODATA. AA-bit is set, and the SOA record is in the authority section.
* Referral: AA-bit is unset, and the authority section contains the NS records for the referral. And possibly even glue records.

If NODATA, there is no reason to requery. If referral, send query to the subzone NS. If neither, report error.

We could also change the target name to be something outside the zone, e.g. something.xb, and then there should be no records in the authority section.

> This, in turn, should trigger a subordinate query for target.unresolvable-cname.recursor.engine.xa. It’s that query that should yield a response with some RCODE that is neither NOERROR nor NXDOMAIN. The spec here says FORMERR, but SERVFAIL would work just as well. The answer, authority and additional sections should be empty.

This description makes more sense, but it must be clarified if it should be a NODATA or referral case. Or even the case with error, but then requerying is not possible. Maybe split into three scenarios?
